1. How can changes to Bitcoins p2p protocol affect mining? (Advances in Block Propagation)
    * Changes to the protocol can slow down the propagation of blocks from miners to the network, which can increase the orphan rate of blocks and cause miners with greater hashpower to have a mining advantage (because a miner doesn't need to wait for their own blocks to propagate in order to begin working on the next block), thereby causing greater centralization in the network. Conversely, improvements in the p2p protocol that speed up block propagation can have the opposite effect, reducing orphans and allowing smaller miners to operate more profitably.
1. How does the FIBRE network work and what were the motivations to iterate on the original Relay Network? (Relay Networks and FIBRE)
    * The FIBRE network is a group of geographically distributed nodes run by the same administrator who can quickly relay transactions and blocks to one another. They do so using a Forward Error Correction along with UDP, to get rid of increased relay time inherent in sending data long distances over TCP. The reason for its advent is that the Bitcoin Relay Network's propagation time began to creep up north of one second, due to blocks increasingly containing transactions not found in the mempool, so a faster relay network was ideal for the network's health to prevent mining centralization.
1. How do pools give work assignments to client miners? Do all miners search the same block candidates?
Pool operators give client miners block candidates to work on. In the past, pools would give each miner nonce ranges to work through in order to prevent duplicated work. Miners would work on those nonce ranges and request new ranges (or new payout addresses) from the pool once exhausted. Now, pools have moved to a model where miners can change details in the Coinbase transaction themselves and mine without returning to the pool for assignments. So while client miners work on similar block candidates, they use different nonce ranges to produce unique hashes.
1. What are 'shares' and how do they help facilitate pooled mining?
    * Client miners in a pool mine against a difficulty level set by the pool operator. This difficulty is lower than Bitcoin's difficulty, allowing small miners to be able to find enough blocks to earn shares from the pool. Those shares are then used to determine a miner's percentage of the payout from a block mined by the pool.
1. Consider the following scenario: Segwit2x didn’t happen (or miners didn’t throw in support for it) and UASF (BIP148) ended up causing a chain split on August 1st, 2017, with minority mining support (e.g. ~10-20%). What would likely happen as a result?
1. How far back into the past can the timestamp in blocks be? Is this validated? How can this be attacked?
    * Timestamps must be greater than the median timestamp of the prior 11 blocks, while also being less than the network-adjusted time plus two hours. This wiggle room opens the possibility of some miner attacks. For example the "Time Warp" attack, while difficult to execute, would also miners to manipulate Bitcoin's difficulty adjustment to make it much easier to mine the remaining blocks with a reward.
1. What is the 'Selfish Mining' attack? How does it work? Is it a real threat? Why or why not? (Majority is not Enough)
    * Selfish mining is a strategy that a miner or mining pool would employ to try and mine an greater number of blocks than would be expected otherwise. The mining operation would attempt to build a private chain of blocks after the last publicly known head of the chain. The miner only publishes blocks only when required to orphan the blocks that others publish. By withholding block information a miner can privately work on its own chain, causing other miners to waste hashpower. There is some risk of losing out on the block reward if the competing "public" chain becomes longer than the private one. It seems to be a real threat but is mitigated at this point by the improvements in latency in the Bitcoin network, and also by practices such as spy mining that make it difficult for pools to conceal mined blocks.
1. What is a BGP Hijack attack? What prevents it? (Mining: No Good, The Bad, and The Ugly)
    * BGP hijacking is the process of rerouting internet traffic by claiming falsly claiming ownership over groups of IP addresses. It's very difficult to stop, almost impossible. An attacker needs to gain control over a BGP router in order to undertake the attack. It can be stopped on a user's end by monitoring where internet traffic is routed to.
1. What is a share withholding attack? Why isn't it used more often? What is the defense?
1. How do P2Pools work? Advantages and disadvantages? (Mining and Consensus in Mastering Bitcoin)
    * P2Pools are peer-to-peer mining pools that operate without a pool operator. They work by relying on software that decentralizes the functions of the pool server that an operator would traditionally do. The peer-to-peer pool implements a *share chain*, which is a blockchain-like system that runs with a lower difficulty than bitcoin's, and where miners mine "shares" of the chain every 30 seconds. The miners mine on the share chain, earning shares of the eventual reward, and when one of the blocks mined on the chain also meets bitcoin's difficulty requirement, the block is propagated and the miners with shares in the share chain preceding the valid blocks receive a payout proportionate to their shares. The advantage of P2Pools is that there is no central operator who can direct the miners' efforts towards nefarious purposes (e.g. double spending). The disadvantage for miners is that it requires them to run a full bitcoin node and the P2Pool software, neither of which are required in a centralized setup because the pool operator can handle those functions.
1. Why not encrypt all communications with pool operators?
1. Why would some miners use parts of the version field as a nonce? What effect did this have on nodes? (The problem with ASIC Boost)
    * Miners would use the version field in order to create extra entropy for hashing on candidate blocks. This is due to the fact that the nonce field in the header is easy for most miners to exhaust, and changing the nonce in the coinbase transaction requires partial merkel tree recomputing. So simply changing the version header is easier for miners. The effect on nodes receiving blocks is that they might receive an unknown version number, which is nevertheless valid. Nodes would end up logging warnings about the version number, necessitating a removal of the log statement in `v0.18.0`.
1. What is the difference between overt and covert ASIC Boost? (The problem with ASIC Boost)
1. Have we seen the difficulty retarget algorithm be manipulated in other projects? Is this a threat to Bitcoin?